So let's get back to here.
So how do we specify the type
error from a from string?
It makes sense also that there
is a potential for error.
Cuz if you parse something from a string,
what if the string does not match?
Of course,
there has to be some sort of error.
And so the other option would be to use
an option return nothing or something.
But I think an error is probably more
appropriate cuz you can give some context
around it as well,
makes sense at least to me.
So we'll go like this, anyhow::Error.
So we're referring to this thing right off
the package as this is the error type,
the anyhow::Error, which means we
can also use the anyhow::Result.
So what I'm gonna do is
I'm gonna go use anyhow.
For whatever reason,
it always has a really hard time dealing
autocompletion and just grabbing it from
the LSP using result cuz there's
already a result object globally.
So I'll just go grab the anyhow::Result,
jump down here, and simply return that.
There we go.
So now we're using the anyhow::Result,
and just in case if you don't believe me,
you can always jump to definition.
And where are we at?
We are actually in the Rust lib.
That is sad,
that's not what I wanted to see.
But that's okay.
It's probably still using the correct
thing anyhow, just decorates it, and so
probably it still works out just fine.
All right, anyways, so there we go.
So now we have a from string.
It's gonna give us a reference
to a string, meaning,
it doesn't consume the string, it just
simply needs a reference to a string.
And then I need to produce
out a result of self.
Self is just a nice way of saying,
what is the info on?
So it's actually point.
People use this a lot as a way
to do that because that way,
if you make slight changes,
self still just universally works.
All right, so once I take away the todo,
it's gonna say, hey,
you're returning nothing,
but I expect a result.
So let's start doing that.
So if you remember from last time,
we did have a and b, right?
So we could split once on this string.
And there we go.
So we have this once.
That's how it's split, but this thing
doesn't return an error, unfortunately,
it returns an option.
So we have to handle the option case.
If there is nothing, what should we do?
To me, kinda seems like we should probably
almost return an error like, hey,
this is a bad line.
We should have handled this better.
So let's just do that now.
So I'm gonna go like this, let result,
I can just do that and
go if result.is_none.
I can just do something as
simple as anyhow!("expected
a point to contain a comma"), right?
Beautiful, and of course,
it wants Err because it is a result.
And we have to import this anyhow macro.
So you should be able to just simply use,
I can use a code action for it.
So it's located right here.
So you can just change your import
statement to look like this.
If your LSP was behaving,
which mine is not,
it should have just auto done that all for
you.
A year of them, I'm telling you,
it's gonna work out.
So there we go, we've handled this case.
We can now safely unwrap it cuz we
do know that it does exist here.
We could also have done an if
statement right here and
just pulled it out via pattern matching.
We could have done a couple
different approaches.
Let's just do this one.
It's the simplest form of it.
So I'll go (x, y) = result.unwrap.
The nice part about doing this,
though, is that if we used expect,
it would have hard crashed our
program if there's an error.
Instead, we're bubbling up some error with
a little bit of context on it, should
be kinda nice, just kinda get us a little
bit more familiar with error handling.
There we go.
So we have these nice x's and y's,
which of course, are references to string
because we just split once on a reference
to a string, so what comes out?
Reference to a string.
It also makes sense if you
had a capitalized string,
it would still be a reference because
it doesn't need to create copies.
It just needs to refer to these
two little points in time.
And so you can kind of guess
what a reference to a string is.
It's just a point in the memory and
the length, right?
It just can tell you how much there is.
And so there we go.
So now that we have that, we now take x
and we need to turn it into a number.
So we can do that pretty easily by doing,
well, let's do i32.
Is that what we did up here?
Yeah, we did i32, it's awesome.
We can do i32 and we can actually do
a str::parse, and we can provide x.
Now, remember,
since we have the anyhow library,
we should be able to do .context,
and it's not showing up.
Isn't that what this thing returns?
Yeah, it should return, okay,
we can at least do that.
I was hoping to put a little context on
it, but I mean, do we really need context?
Do we really need context?
It's probably just not showing up.
I've been having a little
bit of problems here.
I probably just add in the word context,
all right?
And now I should be able to go context.
Something tells me that
my LSP is struggling.
We'll just continue on this later.
There we go.
And now we can return a Ok,
a point, and of course, x and y.
Remember, we do not have to specify them
in the proper order because Rust will
break it down into variables
matching named properties.
So there we go.
We have now done this.
We have now created a from string for
point.
Here's the error it emits,
here's how you do it.
Let's just do that again, but
let's do it for line, right?
So now notice that I just changed line and
I don't have to change
anything about this statement.
We use that self, so
this is another reason why self can
kinda be useful as you do things.
Self just makes a little bit
easier to work with this.
There we go.
So now we're just gonna
simply split once on this.
Now remember,
this will give us out two points.
We can do the exact same thing right here,
expected a line to contain this, why not?
This is easy, right?
We'll unwrap it again.
We'll just do all the same things.
And now we can just string one.
We can just parse this thing
out as a p1 and as a point.
And look at that, it works.
We were able to just
simply call str::parse.
We gave our variable a type and
it knew it.
And Rust is really good
at understanding types.
So we can even not give it a type,
like that.
Increment this, increment this, and
then do a simple line and go p1, p2.
And it's going to be able to infer
if lines p1 is of type point.
So therefore, when I call str::parse,
it's gonna need to return out a point,
and the point's
implementation is right here.
So it actually does a lot
of inference pretty well.
I actually really like this part.
It's because, especially if you come
from a C++ background, there's just so
much type specification constantly,
and then to get around, they use auto.
But auto just doesn't quite give you
that same good amount of information,
whereas this, I can see right away.
It correctly identified exactly what that
type was because of this return statement.
Now if I didn't have that return
statement, and instead, it did, say,
return Ok(Line) and I'm not sure if I can
do that, p1 0, 0, can I just use that?
No, I have to do that.
Okay, we could show you, but whatever,
it's too much work at this point.
Let's just move forward.
If it doesn't have the type,
if it cannot infer,
then it's gonna give you
that nice hard error.
But if it does have that information,
it will gladly do it for you.
So there we go, we have everything.
I think we need to be able to solve
this problem, except for one thing.
How do we know if the line is
horizontal slash vertical?
So we can do one of two methods.
We can either have a function that is
kinda free floating like we did in
TypeScript is, everyone's favorite word,
horv, is horizontal or vertical, or
we can attach it to the line.
Which one, since we did it the other way,
and you guys are unfamiliar with Rust,
let's attach it to the line.
Even though it probably is not as
convenient as simply just having it as
a free floating function cuz then I
can just pass this into filter and
it'll do the right thing.
So instead,
let's just attach it to the line.
So I'm gonna go impl.
Remember, impl is how we say, hey,
these are implementations
that exist on this struct.
impl Line, and now I can go fn is_horv.
And of course, the only thing it takes
a reference to is a non-mutable
version of itself.
So if you're wondering what this
means right here, this just means,
hey, I need to be on an instance and
I cannot mutate the data.
So if you wanted to mutate the data,
you could do something like this, right?
You could do a mutable reference.
Now this would require that your
variable is mutable when you create it.
Or you can have something that's
more like a static member.
So if I had the exact same thing,
I could take in a (line: Line), right,
a reference to a line and
return out a Boolean.
And each one of these
would be able to be used.
Here, let's just get rid of this
one cuz we don't need that one.
We'd be able to do something
along the lines of Line::is this.
And then I have to pass in the line
because I'm not doing a self right here.
Or if I use the self, well,
then I'd have to have a line
object in which I call it on.
So that's kinda the two differences,
but that makes sense.
That's kind of just like how it
is on a class on TypeScript.
Exact same constructs exist.
So let's make sure if it's horizontal or
vertical.
So let's return self.p1.x == self.p2.x,
or copy paste, erase, erase, move.
My goodness, I forgot where x is,
x/y, there we go.
That's why it wasn't working.
I was like, where is it going?
All right, there we go.
So long as point 1x equals point 2x or
point 1y equals point 2y,
we have ourselves a horizontal or
vertical line.
And of course, if we exported this thing,
we would need to make this thing public.
We're not exporting it,
we're just using it right here.
Awesome, there we go, we've done it.
Another thing to take notice is that Rust
is really great at identifying things that
aren't used.
So when it says this,
this is actually unused,
you can pretty much rely
on this 100% of the time.
Sometimes it's a little dangerous to use
static analysis tools that erase code cuz
not all code is actually not used,
and then your life is very, very sad.
And so we don't have to worry about that.
So we have everything we need.
We have the input,
we have our point, we have our line,
we have our from string,
we have our line method is_horv.
And so let's actually use this.
So I'm gonna go get_input.
Now this is the fun part.
We're gonna do this again.
Let's use all the fun iterator stuff.
So we can call lines on it,
you remember that?
And so
now we need to take our string line and
convert it into a line,
right, a line struct.
So can anyone out here right now kinda
take a guess, if you're following along,
what should be the next method I should
call on this nice beautiful iterator?
>> Map.
>> Map, so check this out.
So let's call map, and let's take an x,
right, x is just, as you can see,
it's just gonna be a reference to a
string, cuz we haven't done anything yet.
And let's go str::parse(x).
All right, so
what do you think the next, oop,
I realized that Rust hates it this way,
never do this way.
Remember, Rust prefers it this way always.
All right,
what do you think the next value of x?
What do you think the type
is gonna be on this one?
Anyone wanna take a guess
what it could be?
>> Point.
>> Well, right now it's unknown because it
doesn't know, but it does know one thing,
it is a result object.
So that means it still
potentially contains an error.
Now, remember earlier,
I did tell you about that result
in options have that .map method.
Remember, what does a flat_map do?
Well, flat_map takes in something that can
be mapped, and then pretty much flattens
it, kinda like array.concat,
will bring it into the same iterator.
So every subvalue will be pumped out.
So I can actually go like this, flat_map.
And it will only on the results
that aren't errors continue on.
So that's pretty cool.
So now if I look at the value of x,
it's now just an unknown.
It doesn't know what it is quite yet
cuz we haven't given it
enough type information, but it does
know it's no longer a result object.
That's actually pretty cool, right?
That makes handling errors super slick.
If you just don't care about the errors,
just ignore them, flat_map them.
We're ready to rock.
I love that, fantastic.
So let's call a nice filter method.
And of course,
we're gonna go like this, is_horv.
It doesn't know it quite yet
because it still hasn't quite figured out
what it's supposed to be at this point.
And so at that point, we can then
call a collect, if we want to, which
a collect will take something and turn it
into a vector or a string of something.
And so we wanna turn this
thing into a Vec of Line.
And so when I do that,
it now should have everything.
And this one still complaining for
it, so we can give it a type,
which it'll be a reference to a line,
right?
There we go.
It's a reference to a line.
It now knows its type.
Everything is good, and
we can go lines right here.
And everything is beautiful,
quick println.
And of course, put in one,
remember the man smoking the pipe.
Now, what are we gonna do here?
We have the same error,
does anyone remember,
what do we need to attach to
a struct to make this successful?
>> The macro thing.
>> Boom, the procedural macro,
the proc macro.
Actually, I might be wrong.
I assume it stands for proc, procedural.
I mean, I guess it could stand for
proctologist, but that'd be weird.
derive(Debug), there we go, take that.
But even though I do that here,
I still need to do it here, right?
Cuz the line doesn't
know how to debug itself.
Same thing this way, it would go, hey,
you are doing debug implementation, but
your subcomponents cannot be debugged,
therefore,
you cannot implement this like that.
So I'd have to do this.
There we go, we now have everything.
And of course, it prints out just fine.
We can do a nice cargo run --bin p2, and
we should see these beautiful nice lines.
Again, these are all our horizontal or
straight lines.
You can see yy, it's yy again,
yy, then it's xx, xx,
then it's xx again, 77, then it's yy for
the last, yy, yy, perfect.
Look at that.
We only got horizontal or straight lines.
And so that's all we have to do.
So that's pretty nice, right?
Once we've created these nice
implementation details on the structs,
working with them in a more standardized
way becomes very easy, right?
This was very, very nice.
I just have to call str::parse,
just parse the damn thing, right?
I don't have to know about it.
Now I think I might be wrong on this one,
so let's just try it out.
It's always good to be wrong.
I believe you can just do this, too.
I'm just gonna pass in this function and
it's gonna know what to do.
Because it can know what to do because
someone wrote some very magical
compiler magic out there.
And there we go, right?
Because str::parse obviously
takes a single argument.
This thing gives a single argument.
It is parsable.
There we go, and so that is problem two.